well up a vaccine we're also pursuing
antiviral therapies and that's what
really we're going to be talking to you
about today that's the purpose of being
up here today and to me that's even more
important than you vaccines by its
nature you have to have long tests
because you have to make sure what goes
into somebody's body is not going to do
destruction do bad things so you need
long tests and they're doing great with
the vaccines but it's still a long
process but the therapies are something
we can move on much faster potentially
and the treatments that we'll be able to
reduce the severity or duration of the
symptoms make people better essentially
what looking at things to make people
better or at the very earliest stages
they wouldn't even know they had it and
that's where I believe it's going to
work even the best the FDA Commissioner
Stephen on who's with us is fantastic
and he's been working 24 hours a day
he's been he's worked like probably as
hard or harder than anybody in this in
the group other than maybe Mike Pence or
me and what the FDA is doing is
incredible they've done things in times
that were not even thinkable and I've
directed the FDA to eliminate outdated
rules and bureaucracy so this work can
proceed rapidly quickly and I mean vast
and we have to remove every barrier
there are a lot of barriers that were
unnecessary and they've done that to get
the rapid deployment of safe effective
treatments and we think we have some
good answers we'll find out very very
soon clinical trials are already
underway for many new therapies and
we're working on scaling these to allow
many more Americans to access different
drugs
that have shown really good promise
we've had some really good promise we
will do so in a way that lets us
continue to collect good data to know
which medicines are safe and which
medicines are working the best we have a
couple that where we're in really good
shape on and that's for immediate
delivery immediate like as fast as we
can get it
the FDA has also approved compassionate
use for a significant number of patients
you know what that means we're also
reviewing drugs that are approved abroad
or drugs approved here for other uses
and you know one of the things that I'm
most proud of that I got was right to
try that's where somebody who's ill
somebody who's very sick terminally ill
usually in past administration's we
signed us a year and a half ago you
wouldn't be able to even think about
getting any of the drugs that may be
showing great promise now and they've
been trying for many decades to get this
approved and it sounds simple but it's
not because it's liability involved and
lots of other things
and I was able to get it approved
working with Congress right to try this
is beyond right to try what we're
talking about today is beyond right to
try right to try a spin by the way
tremendous success people are living now
that had no chance of living where we
take treatments that would things that
that would have to go through years of a
process and if somebody was terminally
ill and I would say why wouldn't they be
able to try this they'd go to Asia they
go to Europe they'd go all over the
world to try and find something or some
people have that no money we go home to
die they go home to die they had no hope
right to try it's been an incredible
success but this is beyond right to try
if treatment is known to be safe in
Europe Japan or other nations are
effective against the virus we'll use
that information to protect the health
and safety of American people nothing
will stand in our way as we pursue any
avenue to find what best works
this horrible virus now a drug called
chloroquine and some people would add to
it hydroxy hydroxychloroquine so
chloroquine or hydroxychloroquine now
this is a common malaria drug it's also
a drug used for strong rightous somebody
has pretty serious arthritis also uses
this in a somewhat different form but it
is known as a malaria drug and it's been
around for a long time and it's very
powerful but the nice part is it's been
around for a long time so we know that
if it if if things don't go as planned
it's not going to kill anybody when you
go with a brand new drug you don't know
that that's gonna happen you have to see
and you have to go long tests but this
has been used in different forms very
powerful drug in different forms and
it's shown very encouraging very very
encouraging early results and we're
going to be able to make that drug
available almost immediately and that's
where the FDA has been so great they
they've gone through the approval
process it's been approved and they did
it they took it down from many many
months to immediate so we're gonna be
able to make that drug available by
prescription or States I spoke with
Governor Cuomo about it at great length
last night and he wants to be right on
on the he wants to be first on the line
and so I think that's a tremendous is
tremendous promise based on the results
and other tests this tremendous promise
and normally the FDA would take a long
time to approve something like that and
it's it was approved very very quickly
and it's now approved
by prescription individual states will
handle it they can handle it
doctors will handle it and I think it's
gonna be I think it's gonna be great
then we're quickly studying this drug
and while we're continuing to study it
but the studying is going to be also
done in as it's given out to large
groups of people perhaps in New York and
other places will study it there there
are promising therapies produced by
Gilead and that's Ramdev or REM d'Ivoire
and that's a drug used for other
purposes that's been out and said very
good results for other purposes but it
seems to have a very good result having
to do with this virus and that drug also
has been approved or very close to
approved in that case by the FDA and I
can't tell you how much we appreciate
what the FDA these people are incredible
Patriots and the job that Stephen Han is
doing dr. Han was one of the most
respected doctors in the country by the
way where we took him I said you sure
you want to do this now we didn't know
that this was going to be in the
playlist what happened here but he
really has stepped up to the plate well
who you are words really my cheek is him
but I'm not supposed to do that
getting a lot of trouble if I didn't but
he's been fantastic and I thank you
doctor he's gonna speak right after I'm
finished so Regeneron again and some is
a company that's done fantastically well
as I understand with Ebola and some
other things great company and they're
looking at some very promising events
also so you have rimmed Esav voir and
you have cleric wind
and I drill hydroxychloroquine so those
are two that are out now essentially
approved for prescribed use and I think
it's gonna be very exciting I think it
could be a game-changer and maybe not
and maybe not but I think it could be
based on what I see it could be a
game-changer very powerful they're very
powerful so I want every American to
know that we're doing everything we can
and these actions are important next
steps I mean for the FDA to act the way
they acted with this kind of speed is an
incredible thing normally they'd say
well we can have it by next year or we
could have it by in two years from now
you understand this is the way normally
it's like years and years and years they
had it immediately based on the fact
that it's been used for other things
totally unrelated things we believe
these therapeutics and others under
evaluation right now will be able to
provide relief to many Americans we
really hope that's going to be this
could be a tremendous breakthrough
tremendous breakthrough and we will work
toward a much needed - vaccine in the
future as I said and what we're doing
with the FDA is so exciting in so many
other fields so many things are
happening it's a very exciting time for
for medicine and we appreciate that the
American public has pulled together
they're really staying home and I think
there's tremendous spirit in this
country right now it's spirit like a lot
of people have not seen people have not
seen anything like it for a long time
and that means democrat-republican
they're pulling together I hope
everything's going good in the hill
maybe I shouldn't say this until I check
out what's going on because you never
know but but I think there's a great
spirit where the Democrats the
Republicans and everybody else they're
getting together and they're trying to
get things done but most importantly the
American public has been incredible we
took the best economy we've ever had
and we said stop you can't work you have
to stay home you know there's never been
a case like this normally you pay a lot
of money to get things going here's a
case we're paying a lot of money to stop
things because we don't want people to
be together so that this virus doesn't
continue onward so there's never been
anything like this in history there's
never been a nobody's ever seen anything
like this but we're doing the right
thing we have to get rid of in our big
war is not a it's not a financial war
it's a war and it's a medical war we
have to win this war it's very important
with that I'd like to just introduce dr.
Stephen Hahn and he again I'd like to
send back with Stephen our thanks to all
of the people working in the FDA who are
fantastic talented people we appreciate
it very much everything you've done
especially the speed that you've got
these two elements these two very
important drugs passed thank you very
much thank you mr. president I want to
thank you for your leadership during
this corona virus outbreak and thank you
for the kind words about the FDA staff
we have 10,000 scientists doctors and
others and more than that working around
the clock to aid the American people in
this fight against the corona virus and
those words are very much appreciated
sir thank you so before the president
nominated me and I was confirmed as
commissioner from drugs that was a
cancer doctor and I've sat across from
countless number of patients and had to
talk to them about their diagnosis in
their treatment and one thing that was
really important is to provide hope I
have great hope for how we're going to
come out of this situation what's also
important is not to provide false hope
but to provide hope and as a doctor
that's the way I come to this I'm
speaking now to the American people as
Commissioner of food and drugs but that
part of me has not left just look at the
way the American people have responded
to our calls for mitigation for social
distancing American people have great
resiliency and I'm so incredibly proud
of how the
people have responded as the president
mentioned he asked us to be aggressive
to break down barriers to innovation and
to accelerate the development of
life-saving treatments and we're doing
that at the FDA the FDA is committed to
continuing to provide regulatory
flexibility and guidance but let me make
one thing clear
FDA's responsibility to the American
people is to ensure that products are
safe and effective and yet we are
continuing to do that our folks and
their tremendous professionals are
working day and night to do this you
just can't even imagine how much they're
working to provide this support for the
American people and I thank them since
early January long before the first
domestic case FDA began working in
collaboration with CDC I also want to
note that we stood up at incident
command group and have been focused on
the corona virus since the very
beginning of this public health
emergency this is in addition and all of
government and all America proach and
I'll describe what I mean by that in
terms of the development of therapeutics
an important part of that work is
expanding the potential therapeutic
options associated with coronavirus and
we've learned from our colleagues across
the globe about this but I I want to
focus on one thing I was a cancer
researcher before all this and one thing
I know about this great country of ours
is that we have unbelievable innovators
we have people who every day it's their
job to develop treatments for all sorts
of diseases we are incredibly blessed as
a country to have this and as is true in
any illness these great American
innovators academia private sector they
have engaged us about the best possible
treatment options we are looking at
everything that's coming across our
desks as possible treatment options for
coronavirus and we're extremely
encouraged by the interest and the
promise that we've seen from these great
American innovators now again we need to
look at it we need the data we need the
information to make the absolute best
decisions for American people but I want
to assure you we have over 17,000 people
at FDA who are doing this ever
today we need we need to make sure that
these the see of new treatments will get
the right drug to the right patient at
the right dosage at the right time as an
example we may have the right drug but
it may not be in the appropriate dosage
form right now and that may do more harm
than good those are the things that
that's our job to look at and that's why
it's really important we have these
dedicated professionals looking at these
aspects of therapeutic development at
the same time we're also working through
different mechanisms to actually get
drugs into the hands of providers and
patients the president mentioned this
but one of the mechanisms called
compassionate use let me just tell you
about this if there's an experimental
drug that's potentially available a
doctor could ask for that drug to be
used in a patient we have criteria for
that and very speedy approval for that
the important thing about compassionate
use and that's what the president meant
this is even beyond right to try is that
we get to collect the information about
that because one of the things has no
promised the American people is we will
collect the data and then make the
absolute right decisions based upon
those data about the safety and efficacy
of the treatments we are working
expeditiously and we are working to make
sure that these products are as safe and
effective as they possibly can be can be
let me tell you about a few things that
we're currently working on and this is a
plan that was developed with many of the
people at this table are infectious
disease experts on the task force in the
short term we're looking at drugs that
are already approved for other
indications so they're already approved
as the president said for other diseases
as an example many Americans have read
studies and heard media reports about
this drug chloroquine which is an
anti-malarial drug it's already approved
as the president said for the treatment
of malaria as well as in arthritis
condition that's a drug that the
president has directed us to take a
closer look at as to whether an expanded
use approach to that could be done to
actually see if that benefits patients
and again we want to do that in the
setting of a clinical trial a large
pragmatic clinical trial to actually
gather that information and answer the
question that needs to be answered
and asked and answered let me give you
another example
there's a cross-agency effort about
something called convalescent plasma
this is a pretty exciting area and again
this is something that we have given
assistance to other countries with as
this crisis has developed so FDA's been
working for some time on this if you've
been exposed to coronavirus and you're
better you don't have the virus in your
blood we could collect the blood now
this is a possible treatment this is not
a proven treatment just want to
emphasize that collect the blood
concentrate that and have the ability
once it's pathogen free that is virus
free be able to give that to other
patients and the immunoglobulins the
immune response could potentially
provide a benefit to patients it's
another thing that we're looking at over
the next couple weeks we'll have more
information that we're really pushing
hard to try to accelerate that that's in
this sort of more medium short term and
that'll be a bridge to other therapies
that will take us three to six months to
develop and this is a continuous process
there is no beginning and end to each of
this this is you know we're pushing this
through the other great thing about the
great innovators of America some of them
tell us it's taken us years years to
develop therapies they're looking at
pushing that to the months period of
time and we're trying to provide them
the regulatory flexibility but at the
same time the scientific oversight to
make sure that gets done in the best way
possible for the American people the
president mentioned that there is a
vaccine trial currently being performed
it's a phase one trial so it's the
earliest study that gets done we expect
that to take 12 months to get depletion
to actually a time where we could
approve a vaccine but that's these are
all things to bridge to the prevention
part of this with a vaccine it's
exciting work and the president is right
this is record time for the development
of a vaccine and impressive
public-private partnership the FDA's
efforts to facilitate the development of
these products are focused on ensuring
timely access while also meeting the
agency's world respected gold standard
relying on strong data from clinical
trials to determine if an experimental
or an off-the-shelf drug that's used for
something else can safely and
effectively treat patients we want to
assure the American people that F T
is all hands on deck as the president
mentioned these efforts and continue to
work with interested sponsors to help
expedite the work we remain steadfast in
helping to foster the development of
safe and effective therapies for koba 19
thank you Thank You mr. president the
White House coronavirus task force met
this morning and on this very first day
of springg we continue to make steady
progress toward president Trump's
objective not only to marshal all the
resources of the federal government
every state government every every local
health official but also to harness the
power of the American private sector and
activities over the last day reflect all
of those priorities
yesterday the president spoke with
America's top physicians and nurses